0. physical layer
  
1. data link layer
  establishes and terminates a connection between two phycially connected nodes on a network.
  breaks up packets into frames and sends them from source todestination
  Logical Link Control and Media Access Control
2. network layer
  a. divide the huge packets into little chunks, if the packet is higher than the most extensive data link layer
  b. reassemble the packets on the receiving end
  c. routing and switching
    rounter: contains two or more links and is responsible for finding the way to transmit data. 
             It contains multiple interfaces, one for each link, to provide routing services.
             IP requires each interface to have an IP addres because each interface is capable of sending and receiving IP packets
              IP address: 
                version is not important as it is determined in datalink layer
                i. IP4: 32 bits address space
                  (i). header: 14 fields, 1 optional
                    version: 4
                    IHL(internet header length): 5 to 15 - indicating 5 * 32 bits = 160 bits = 20 bytes to 15 * 32 bits = 60 bytes
                    Differentiated Services Code Point (DSCP): Originally defined as the type of service (ToS), this field specifies differentiated services (DiffServ) per RFC 2474.[a] Real-time data streaming makes use of the DSCP field. An example is Voice over IP (VoIP), which is used for interactive voice services.
                    Explicit Congestion Notification (ECN): This field is defined in RFC 3168 and allows end-to-end notification of network congestion without dropping packets. ECN is an optional feature available when both endpoints support it and effective when also supported by the underlying network.
                    Identification: an identification field and is primarily used for uniquely identifying the group of fragments of a single IP datagram.
                    Total Length: 16 bits, defines header + body length. min: 20 bytes (header without data); max: 65,535 bytes
                    Flags: A three-bit field follows and is used to control or identify fragments. They are (in order, from most significant to least significant):
                      bit 0: Reserved; must be zero.[b]
                      bit 1: Don't Fragment (DF): if the DF flag is set, and fragmentation is required to route the packet, then the packet is dropped.
                      bit 2: More Fragments (MF): For unfragmented packets, the MF flag is cleared. For fragmented packets, all fragments except the last have the MF flag set. 
                                                  The last fragment has a non-zero Fragment Offset field, differentiating it from an unfragmented packet.
                      Fragment offset: specifies the offset of a particular fragment relative to the beginning of the original unfragmented IP datagram in units of eight-byte blocks. The first fragment has an offset of zero. The 13 bit field allows a maximum offset of (213 – 1) × 8 = 65,528 bytes, which, with the header length included (65,528 + 20 = 65,548 bytes), supports fragmentation of packets exceeding the maximum IP length of 65,535 bytes.                            
                      Time to live: 8 bit. specifies how long the packet live in seconds to prevent network failure in the event of a routing loop. 
                                    uses as a hop count (how many times the packet traverses from source to destination) so when it reaches a rounter, ttl - 1.
                      Protocol: defines the protocol used in the data portion of the IP datagram.
                      Header checksum: The 16-bit IPv4 header checksum field is used for error-checking of the header. 
                      Source address: the IPv4 address of the sender of the packet. Note that this address may be changed in transit by a network address translation device.
                      Destination address: the IPv4 address of the receiver of the packet. As with the source address, this may be changed in transit by a network address translation device.
                  (ii). data
                    The packet payload is not included in the checksum. Its contents are interpreted based on the value of the Protocol header field.
                ii. IP6: 128-bit
                  (i). header: 40 bytes in length.
                  Version: 4 bits
                  Traffic Class: 8 bits. similar to the Service Field of the IPv4 packet. It signifies the priority of the IPv6 packet. can change during transportation
                  Flow Label: 20 bits. ordering. 0 for routers and hosts do not support this.
                  Payload length: 16 bits. total length including upper layer packet and extension header (if any). if the length become greater than 65,535 bytes, then the field becomes 0.
                  next header: 8 bits. similar to IPv4 protocol field. signifies the Extension Header type or if not present, signifies the protocols present inside the upper layer packet 
                               like UDP, TCP, etc. UDP (17) and TCP (6) are the most common Next Headers. 
                  HOP limit: 8 bits. similiar to IPv4 TTL. It allows a maximum of 255 hops between the nodes
                  Source address: 128 bits.
                  destination address: 128 bits.
                  (Optional) Extension Headers: present in between the Upper-Layer Header and the Fixed Header. 
                  In case extension headers are being used, then Fixed Header’s Next Header’s field will point to the first Extension Header.
                  During the transition of the Internet from IPv4 to IPv6, it is typical to operate in a mixed addressing environment. 
                  For such use cases, a special notation has been introduced, 
                  which expresses IPv4-mapped and IPv4-compatible IPv6 addresses by writing the least-significant 32 bits of an address in the familiar IPv4 dot-decimal notation, 
                  whereas the 96 most-significant bits are written in IPv6 format.
               routing:
                (i). static: manual routing
                (ii). dynamic: use various routing protocols to determine the shortest and fastest paths.
                (iii). default: the router is configured to send all packets towards a single router (next hop).
  d. creates logical association between senders and users.
  e. internetworking: main responsibility. provides logical connections among multiple types of networks
  f. addressing: logical, software-based
    ip: internet protocol address. 
  g. packetizing
  h. data switching: the procedure of changing packet (data blocks) from source to the destination hub
  i. congestion Control
3. transport layer
  takes data from session layer, break them into packets with length obtained from the session layer, reassemble and check for lost packages, and send them to the network layer
  functions:
  a. service point addressing: locate correct program on a computer
    service point address / port: a type of address in header to find correct process in a computer
  b. flow control
  c. error control
4. session layer
  creates sessions (communication channels) between layers
5. presentation layer
  defines how two devices need to encrypts, encodes, and compresses data to communicate
6. application layer: 
  used by end-user software
  protocols: HTTP, FTP, POP, SMTP, DNS ...
  
